Visitors to the British Isles are often surprised to find so much variation in such a small
group of islands. The differences are particularly strong in Scotland, Wales and Ireland.
These countries have their own language, culture and traditions, which come from their
history as ancient homelands ofthe Celtic people.

イギリス島への訪問者は大抵こんなに小さな島とても変動があることに驚く．
この違いは特にスコットランド，ウェールズとアイルランドで強くみられる．
彼らの「国々」は固有の言語, 文化と伝統を持ってすらいるからだ．
またそれは彼らの先祖の故郷であるケルト人の歴史から由来する．

The Celts were originally from central Europe. They spread across Europe from the 2nd
millennium B.C. to around the lst century B.C., eventually occupying a huge area stretching
from Britain in the west to Turkey in the east.
In around 1000 B.C., the warlike Celts arrived in Britain and soon established themselves
as the dominant people. They were said to be tall, muscular and goodlooking. They scared
their enemies in battle by painting their faces blue and using horses, both to ride and to pull
war chariots.
ケルト人は中央ヨーロッパに起源を持つ．彼らは紀元前2000年前から紀元前100年前ごろにヨーロッパを
横断して入ってきた．だんだんとブリティッシュ島西部からトルコ西までにかけて巨大なエリアを征服しながら．
紀元前1000年ごろ，戦争好きなケルト人はブリティッシュ島に到着して，すぐに支配階級としての地位を確立した．
彼らは高身長筋肉質のイケメンだったと言われている．彼らは戦闘時に顔を青く塗り，馬を繰り，
騎乗線と戦車の牽引もこなしたことで敵から恐れられた．

But the Celts also had a creative and artistic side to them. Their skilled craftspeople
produced pottery bronzes and fabrics covered in fantastically elaborate geometrical designs.
We can recognize these as uniquely beautiful even today. Celtic storytellers, musicians and
ts poets also held an honoured place in society. Unfortunately, our knowledge ofthe Celts is not
complete because they left few written records. Only their priests, known as Druids, could
read and write. The mysterious stone structure in the west of England known as Stonehenge
was used as a Celtic temple and it is possible the Celts built it, but we do not have much
detailed information about the Celtic religion.
20 When the Romans invaded Britain in 43 A.D., some Celtic tribes welcomed them. Other
more aggressive tribes resisted them and were eventually forced to move to the north
and west of Britain, areas that the Romans did not control. This movement led to a large
concentration of Celtic people in the areas that we now call Scotland, Wales and Ireland, as
well as Comwall and the Isle of Man.
2s Celtic languages can still be heard today. Welsh is used as a first language in many parts of
Wales. Irish Gaelic can still be heard in the west of Ireland, and Scots Gaelic is still spoken
by a small number ofpeople in the highlands of Scotland.
